Reflective Report

I have never used PyCharm Integrated Development Environment or the Python programming language, however I have used Visual Basic and the Visual Studio integrated development environment. These two programming languages use different syntax which was jarring and felt a bit weird after 4 years of using almost exclusively Visual Basic, but on the whole it was not too different and was fairly easy to get used to using Python. Other new tools are the markdown file type, version control, and the dependency management tool, all of which I have never used before, but all of them have been useful so far.

These tools will all be useful for future projects. I think that version control in particular will be very useful, as it will allow me to test changes without the risk of breaking the code, which will make the overall process of creating a program simpler and less stressful, as long as changes are committed and pushed frequently. However, the whole process of committing and pushing takes much longer than simply pressing save in Visual Studio and in my opinion is worse in this way, because it is just too tedious, although there are probably keyboard shortcuts that I haven't found yet which would speed up the process by avoiding some menus. That said, on the whole it is more beneficial than not and will be especially useful on group and collaborative projects in the future. I think that markdown will be an effective tool for producing documentation of programs, such as the license and readme files that were produced in this practical, and will be much more useful than alternatives such as Word. This is because it can be used within PyCharm, which makes editing an easier process as there is no need to jump between two separate programs all the time, and is quite simple to use, so no compromise needs to be made when moving from word. I also think that dependencies will be a very good tool. During this practical it made the process of getting the Panda3D files into my program much easier, and hopefully this will be just as useful for similar situations in the future. Also, using dependencies will make sure that code can be kept tidy and that code doesn't need to be copy and pasted in from the original source like in Visual Basic.  PyCharm seems to be a good integrated development environment and has a lot of useful features including all of the tools I have been writing about in this reflective report

Overall, I feel that the connectivity and networking of all of the new tools available will greatly increase the potential of my future coding projects particularly groups projects which require collaboration over a lot of code between many people. Additionally, the tools that are being used and the python programming language itself are fairly easy to transfer over to from Visual Basic and the Visual Studio integrated development environment.
